praying during the worship service is one of the most strategic ministries in a church, while the congregation is singing, listening, and responding. Intercessors are asking God to do what only He can do. We are not trying to help God. We are acknowledging our complete dependence on Him. Scripture reminds us that spiritual battles are one not merely through human effort, but through prayer Ephesians 6.18. Colossians 4.2 and Charles Spurgeon strongly believed that the power of His preaching rested on the prayers of God's people. While there is no evidence that He had a formally organized Sunday prayer team every week exactly as many churches do today, there is abundant historical evidence that people were praying while He preached. At the Metropolitan Tabernacle there, were prayer rooms beneath and around the sanctuary where prayer was offered continually during the ministry of the Word. Spurgeon often referred to the church's prayer meetings as the secret source of power and visitors noted that prayer was almost ceaselessly going up in the rooms surrounding the auditorium. In fact, someone once asked Spurgeon the secret of his ministry. He reportedly took them downstairs and said, here is the powerhouse of this church referring to the people who were praying. While historians debate the exact details of that famous story, there is no question that Spurgeon attributed every blessing in his ministry to the prayers of God's people. What should people pray for during the service? I like to divide it into seven stations or themes. This gives people direction and keeps prayer focused. Pray for God's presence that Christ would be exalted, that the Holy Spirit would have complete freedom, that the worship would glorify God rather than entertain people. Psalm 274, pray for the worship team protection from distraction. Joy and freedom in leading, that every song would prepare hearts for God's Word. Colossians 3, 16 pray for the pastoral physical strength, mental clarity, boldness and compassion, protection from spiritual attack that he would preach exactly what God desires. Ephesians 6, 19, 20 pray for the congregation's soft hearts, freedom from distractions, healing for broken people, encouragement for weary believers, conviction where repentance is needed. Hebrews 4, 12 pray for the loss that unbelievers would understand the gospel. That spiritual blindness would be removed. That today would be their day of salvation. Second Corinthians 4, 4, Romans 10, 13 pray against the enemy that Satan's schemes would be defeated. That confusion, division, fear and discouragement would have no place that every obstacle to God's work would be removed. James 4, 7, pray for life, change that believers would obey what they hear, that families would be strengthened, that new disciples would grow, that the church would leave on mission. James 122A vision for your prayer strength. The baby, his help to my brother, can now call me Lese Careful with it now after about ten months. Bruce 12, 20, 12, 12, sleep right you sexual. I'm going to have to scrape down 12 parts of our life SBB 24, 12, 17ologicca, 12, 24H335, 12, 15, 12, 14... not merely filling time. It is partnering with what God is doing.